hi it's Barney from BBC good food and
here and then we show you how to make a
caramel we're going to be turning into
an almond brittle our first things first
need to get your pan nice and hot so
we've got an empty pan which we've got
on a high heat then we're going to
sprinkle over our sugar so sugar goes
into the pan and we're just going to
wait for the sugar to dissolve and as it
dissolves we're just going to swirl it
around the pan to incorporate the
undissolved sugar in with the sugar
that's already caramelized and what you
don't want to do is you don't want to
stir it with a wooden spoon because that
will make the sugar crystallize what
we're after here is a liquid golden
caramel now if there are any tiny little
lumps which haven't dissolved you want
to get a metal spoon or spatula and
we're just going to crush those into the
camera and then you're just dissolve so
this is our caramel cooks so we're just
going to add our almonds to the pan off
the heat
we just spin up toss those through now
if your caramel does go too solid you
can always put it back on the heat and
just bring it up to melt it a bit more
so now it's just a matter of pouring it
into the tray to harden so what we've
got here is a greased baking tray and
we're just going to pour a caramel on
our nuts so I'm not brittle into the
tray
stay you'll to leave that for about five
minutes at room temperature until it
goes really hard
Sarkar melts at about five minutes and
it's solid that's what it looks like to
get lovely bits of Arlen's and lovely
bits of caramel now if you use this you
just want to break it up snap it into
pieces these shards of brittle are now
ready to use or if you wanted to you can
put them into a food processor and blitz
them into a powder which is delicious
sprinkled over dessert now that's how
you make caramel into almond brittle for
BBC good food